# Rufft
Rufft is a purely rust implementation of several common fast fourier transform algorithms and perhaps some other useful signal processing functions like padding, waveform generation and perhaps the addition of plotting. 

I originally started writing this library for my own educational purposes to improve my rust skills and also to look into these algorithms in more detail. Upon looking into the rust ecosystem for this area, I found that no crate existed computing the FFT over generic collections of a generic floating point type but which was also relatively simple to use. Other crates due achieve this level of abstraction but are very performant focussed such as [RustFFT](https://github.com/ejmahler/RustFFT/tree/master) which gives you many options to choose how to compute the FFT and plans the computation ahead of time. That is a very good method of computing the FFT but I wanted to create something slightly more akin to python's SciPy library which is performant but is easy to use and get up and running. 

Rufft provides a trait `Fft` which can be included in your project which will give you access to an `fft` method which will compute the FFT using either the Cooley-Tukey or the Chirp-Z Transform (Bluestein) FFT algorithm, depending on the length of the inptu sequence. All that is required is that your collection type e.g. `Vec` or `ndarray::Array1` implement a trait provided by rufft called `Iterable`. This trait essentially provides a some small methods and bounds that enable the underlying implementation. This project is still in its early stages and changes are constantly being made but I intend to develop it to provide a reasonable set of features useful for signal processing and research.

I am still reasonably new to rust so any suggestions or contributions are more than welcome.